---
title: 'Community Days 2025'
subtitle: ''
weight: 1
type: 'event'
draft: false

params:
  event:
    dates: 'November 13-14, 2025'
    location_long: 'Südwestpark - Forum, Suedwestpark 37-41, 90449 Nuremberg, Germany'
    location_short: 'Nuremberg, Germany'
    year: 2025
  render:
    lists:
      display_in_lists: true
      display_on_top: false
    images:
      preview: '/events/default/community_days_list.png'
      header: ''
---

## About CSAF Community Days

The CSAF (Common Security Advisory Framework) Community Days is an event
dedicated to discussing tools, best practices, innovations and success stories
related to CSAF. We invite practitioners, developers, producers, consumers and
other community members to share their knowledge with the community.

{{< block-with-background >}}

### Registration

The event registration is closed.
{{< /block-with-background >}}

## Program

### Informal Get-Together Dinner (November 12, 2025)

We will kick off our main event with an informal get-together the evening before:

- Location: Frankonian tavern [Tucher-Bräu am Opernhaus Nürnberg](https://wirtshaus-oper.de/)
- Date & Time: November 12 at 19:00 CET
- Address: [Am Kartäusertor 1, 90402 Nürnberg](https://www.openstreetmap.org/export/embed.html?bbox=11.07338458299637%2C49.4463846587313%2C11.076748073101045%2C49.44798026759549&amp;layer=mapnik&marker=49.44718246965468%2C11.075066328048706) (downtown, 22 minutes away from our main event location)

No registration needed — just drop by, enjoy some good food and drinks, and connect with fellow participants in a relaxed atmosphere. We look forward to seeing you there!

### CSAF Community Day 1 (November 13, 2025)

| Time | Session | TLP |Speaker |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 08:00 - 08:15 CET | Welcome & Opening Remarks | {{< tlp-clear >}} |  |
| 08:20 - 08:50 CET | {{< internal-link "The Hidden Cost of CVEs: Can CSAF and VEX Change the Equation?" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Lisa Olson (Microsoft) |
| 08:55 - 09:40 CET | {{< internal-link "One Year of CSAF - Lessons, Statistics, and Impact" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Jacco Lighart (NCSC-NL) |
| 09:45 - 10:15 CET | *Networking Break with Morning Tea* |     | |
| 10:20 - 10:40 CET | {{< internal-link "An easy Way to become a CSAF Provider with GitHub Actions" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Bernhard Reiter (Intevation GmbH) |
| 10:45 - 11:15 CET | {{< internal-link "Lessons Learned from Automating the CSAF Publication Flow" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Jan Thielscher (EACG) |
| 11:20 - 11:50 CET | {{< internal-link "Challenge your Checker with Contravider: Better Testing for CSAF Distribution Tools" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Sascha L. Teichmann (Intevation GmbH) |
| 11:55 - 13:25 CET | *Lunch* |    | |
| 13:30 - 13:50 CET | {{< internal-link "BOMnipotent - Server and Client for SBOMs and CSAF Docs" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Simon Heidrich (Weichwerke Heidrich Software) |
| 13:55 - 14:25 CET | {{< internal-link "Implementing a CSAF SBOM Matching System - Standard vs. Reality" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Christian Banse (Fraunhofer AISEC) |
| 14:30 - 15:00 CET | {{< internal-link "Bringing together SBOMs and Advisories, with GUAC Trustify" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Jens Reimann (Red Hat) |
| 15:05 - 15:35 CET | *Networking Break with Afternoon Tea* |     | |
| 15:40 - 16:25 CET | {{< internal-link "CSAF Extension - The best worst idea?" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Thomas Schmidt (BSI) |
| 16:30 - 17:40 CET | {{< internal-link "Lightning Talks" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}}  | *various speakers*  |
| 17:45 - 17:55 CET | Day 1 Wrap Up | {{< tlp-clear >}} |    |

**Social Event:** 19:00 CET

### CSAF Community Day 2 (November 14, 2025)

| Time | Session | TLP | Speaker |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 08:00 - 08:10 CET | Welcome and Day 1 Recap | {{< tlp-clear >}} |     |
| 08:15 - 09:00 CET | {{< internal-link "Security Advisories - Facts, Fashions, and Fiction" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Stefan Hagen (CSAF TC) |
| 09:05 - 09:35 CET | {{< internal-link "Bringing Trusted Vulnerability Reporting to Every Organization with DevGuard" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Patrick Rissmann (l3montree) |
| 09:40 - 10:10 CET | *Networking Break with Morning Tea* |     | |
| 10:15 - 10:35 CET | {{< internal-link "An Architecture for Matching CSAF Documents on Industrial Asset Inventories" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Daniel Rittershofer (Fraunhofer IOSB) |
| 10:40 - 11:10 CET | {{< internal-link "Behind the Curtains of the Common Security Advisory Framework: A Critical OT Perspective" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Christian Schroeder and Alex Steg (Siemens) |
| 11:15 - 11:45 CET | {{< internal-link "CSAF & AI" >}} | {{< tlp-green >}} | Sonny van Lingen (Huawei) |
| 11:50 - 13:20 CET | *Lunch* |    | |
| 13:25 - 13:55 CET | {{< internal-link "CSAF for Cloud Native? Challenges and a Proposal" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Christoph Plutte (Ericsson) |
| 14:00 - 14:45 CET | {{< internal-link "Visions for CSAF - Challenges and Perspectives (Panel)" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} |  |
| 14:50 - 15:20 CET | *Networking Break with Afternoon Tea* |     | |
| 15:25 - 15:45 CET | {{< internal-link "CSAF beyond Security" >}} | {{< tlp-clear >}} | Florian Gilcher (Ferrous System) |
| 15:50 - 16:00 CET | Closing Remarks | {{< tlp-clear >}} | |

## Event Location

The CSAF Community Days 2025 will be held as a hybrid event, allowing
participants to join either in person or virtually. The event will take place
on **November 13-14, 2025** in **Südwestpark - Forum, Suedwestpark 37-41, 90449 Nuremberg, Germany**.

{{< open-street-maps "49.428303,11.022078,16" >}}

We look forward to welcoming attendees both on-site and online for an engaging
and collaborative experience.

*Note: Some parts, e.g. giving a (lightning) talk and CSAF walk-up reviews, will only be
available in person.*

{{< sponsors-section data="events.cd-2025-sponsors" >}}

## Sessions

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### The Hidden Cost of CVEs: Can CSAF and VEX Change the Equation?

#### Speaker: Lisa Olson (Microsoft)

**Abstract:** Every time Microsoft publishes a CVE, thousands of security professionals
worldwide spring into action—analyzing, prioritizing, and responding. These efforts,
while essential, represent a significant global investment of time and resources.
As regulatory frameworks like the CRA push for greater transparency, Microsoft is
committed to delivering vulnerability information that is both comprehensive and actionable.
But does more transparency always mean more efficiency? In this session, we’ll explore
the true cost of CVEs in terms of man-hours and examine whether machine-readable standards
like CSAF and VEX can help reduce this burden for stakeholders across the ecosystem.

**Bio:** Lisa Olson is a Principal Security Release Program Manager at Microsoft,
where she has led the Patch Tuesday release process since 2013. A member of the
CVE Board since 2018, Lisa is a passionate advocate for improving vulnerability
communication through automation and machine-readable formats. Her work focuses
on transforming how security information is shared to help organizations respond
faster and more effectively.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### One Year of CSAF - Lessons, Statistics, and Impact

#### Speaker: Jacco Lighart (NCSC-NL)

**Abstract:** One year ago, we were surprised to learn that we had become the largest
producer of CSAF (Common Security Advisory Framework) documents. That milestone sparked a
focused effort to not just maintain volume, but to significantly improve the quality,
consistency, and usefulness of the data we publish.
Over the past year, we've refined our CSAF generation processes, improved adherence
to the standard, and enhanced the structure and accuracy of our vulnerability data and
advisories. In this presentation, I’ll share detailed statistics and graphs that illustrate
how our approach has evolved.
Beyond internal improvements, I’ll highlight several real-world stories of how others are
consuming and integrating our CSAF data.
This session is aimed at others who are producing or working with CSAF documents and
are looking to scale, improve their processes, or simply learn from another
organization’s journey. Whether you’re deep into CSAF adoption or just starting out, I
hope our insights will help inform your path forward.

**Bio:** Jacco is the Product Owner of the Vulnerability Team at the National Cyber Security
Centre of the Netherlands (NCSC-NL). With a career in IT security dating back to 2003,
he has been involved with NCSC-NL for over a decade, including as one of the early
contributors to its security efforts. For the past 2.5 years, he has led a focused team of
four developers building tools for managing vulnerability data and creating security
advisories.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### An easy Way to become a CSAF Provider with GitHub Actions

#### Speaker: Bernhard Reiter (Intevation GmbH)

**Abstract:** A demonstration of how to use the
[csaf-tools *GitHub Action*](https://github.com/csaf-tools/csaf-action) to
publish security advisories from a repository to the static web hosting
of the platform.

This is the easiest way to become a *CSAF trusted provider*.
Useful for software products that use *GitHub Pages* and want to store
their CSAF documents in the repository.

The necessary signing can be done before uploading a document or with
an OpenPGPv4 key saved as GitHub secret.

The *GitHub Action* is developed in autumn 2025 and uses
the Free Software tool `csaf_provider` to build a directory of static
contents. That can be served via HTTP.

Looking at the structure of this solution, you will learn the basics of
how `csaf_provider` works and what principal steps are necessary
to do a similar integration for a different continuous deployment system.

**Bio:** Team lead for CSAF at Intevation - a company based in Osnabrueck.
Intevation is contracted by the German Federal Office of Information Security (BSI)
to help with CSAF standard and tools development.
Among those are the `csaf_downloader` and
*[ISDuBA](https://github.com/ISDuBA/ISDuBA)*, a CSAF Management System for large teams.

With a professional career in IT over more than 25 years, Reiter
is also a Free Software activist with the FSFE and
on the advisory board of Greenbone AG.

More details on Bernhard's homepage:
  https://intevation.de/~bernhard/index.en.html

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Lessons Learned from Automating the CSAF Publication Flow

#### Speaker: Jan Thielscher (EACG)

**Abstract:** Jan will dive into the challenge of automating the publication flow of CSAF
documents and how to overcome them. Based on the idea to automatically create CSAF
documents - whether VEX, Security Advisory or Informational Advisory - initiated from the
vulnerability notification, this speech will outline the information required to achieve
this goal. The talk will present and briefly discuss solution designs and describe the
finally implemented solution. A short demonstration will show, how the result looks like
and report from user reactions.
Finally, remaining challenges and thoughts on further improvements concerning publication
and collection of CSAF documents will be presented. This comprises thoughts on reducing
the data load required to be shared/processed in the given design approach.

**Bio:** Jan is founder and managing director of EACG. He founded EACG over 20 years ago
as a pure Enterprise Architecture Consultancy. Taking his customers from brick and mortar
businesses into the era of e-Commerce and digital businesses, digitally driven
transformations are his passion. Last year he understood the impact AI will have on the
consulting industry and started the transformation into a PSIRT service. TrustSource,
the supply chain security and compliance automation platform is at the heart of
this transformation.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Challenge your Checker with Contravider: Better Testing for CSAF Distribution Tools

#### Speaker: Sascha L. Teichmann (Intevation GmbH)

**Abstract:** The CSAF standard defines rules for the automated distribution of
advisories and VEX documents. Meeting these rules is complex, as
unattended discovery and retrieval require strict conformance.
To prepare for version 2.1, we have developed a [test suite called
contravider](https://github.com/csaf-testsuite/contravider).
It acts as a deliberately faulty provider. By breaking
selected requirements, it can produce negative test cases that help
validate implementations under error conditions.
We present the design and use of this tool. Our approach builds test
configurations with Git change sets applied to a compliant reference
data set. This enables reproducible and extensible testing.

**Bio:** Sascha Teichmann is the technical lead of the CSAF team at
Intevation where he is a senior engineer and consultant.
He is responsible for the main design
of the Open Source [gocsaf-tools](https://github.com/gocsaf/csaf/)
and the CSAF Management System [ISDuBA](https://github.com/ISDuBA/ISDuBA).

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### BOMnipotent - Server and Client for SBOMs and CSAF Docs

#### Speaker: Simon Heidrich (Weichwerke Heidrich Software)

**Abstract:** BOMnipotent is a server-client application pair for managing 
SBOMs and CSAF documents. It contains an access management system based on 
roles and TLP labels, and acts as a CSAF Trusted Provider. The development 
focus is on security, reliability and ease of use. The client is free to use, 
but fully operating the server requires a paid subscription for commercial 
entities. For non-commercial entities, BOMnipotent is completely free in all 
its facets. This demo focuses on BOMnipotent Client, demonstrating how it 
concisely displays data about various aspects of supply chain security documents. 
It will also cover BOMnipotent's answer to the problem of matching SBOM 
components with CSAF advisories. The presentation ends with CWEnum, an open-source 
Rust library for completely local CWE interactions like compile-time checks and deserialisation.

**Bio:** Simon Heidrich is a software developer with a passion for Rust and 
Cybersecurity. Their background includes a study of theoretical physics at 
Heidelberg University. After leaving academia, Simon became employed at AUNOVIS 
GmbH as a software engineer. There, they later took on the role and responsibilities 
of the Cybersecurity Officer. In 2024 Simon founded Weichwerke Heidrich Software 
to develop BOMnipotent.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Implementing a CSAF SBOM Matching System - Standard vs. Reality

#### Speaker: Christian Banse (Fraunhofer AISEC)

**Abstract:** This walk will give insights into implementing a CSAF SBOM matching
system and the challenges encountered when trying to implement the standard in the
real world. Contracted by the German BSI, Fraunhofer AISEC has implemented CSAF
support in the popular dependency management system, DependencyTrack. CSAF’s
SBOM matching model aims to precisely map advisory scope to actual products and
versions in an environment, using structured product identifiers and matching rules. In
practice, successful implementation requires reliable canonical identifiers (CPE, PURL,
etc.), consistent versioning, and normalized product naming across toolchains. Fraunhofer
AISEC’s work in DependencyTrack shows how automation can ingest CSAF feeds and
apply matching logic to a project’s bill-of-materials, surfacing relevant advisories
automatically.

**Bio:** Christian Banse holds a Master of Science in Business Informatics with a
focus on IT security from the University of Regensburg. Since 2011 he has been a
staff member at Fraunhofer AISEC. Since mid-2018 Christian Banse has also been
head of the Service and Application Security department and is, among other things,
responsible for the topic of Cloud assurance His team also develops and integrates
vulnerability advisories and automation workflows based on the OASIS Common Security
Advisory Framework (CSAF) to support standardized, machine-readable security notifications
and continuous certification.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Bringing together SBOMs and Advisories, with GUAC Trustify

#### Speaker: Jens Reimann (Red Hat)

**Abstract:** If you already have sources for SBOMs and advisories, great.
You are creating them yourself or have them available from other sources,
awesome. But now what?
Let's bring them together and get an overview on the status of your SBOM.
This talk will give a quick introduction on
[GUAC Trustify](https://github.com/guacsec/trustify), explain how data
gets into the system, and how you can leverage it to gain some insight.
We will see what the system has to offer when it comes to bringing ready-made
SBOMs and advisories together. How you can inspect the information, and see
the correlation between content and of SBOMs and mapped to advisory information.
Additionally, we will also take a brief look at how we, at Red Hat, use this system
in the whole software creation process.
And of course, there will be some room to talk about the bad and the ugly, and
what we can do to improve the situation.

**Bio:** Jens Reimann is a Senior Principal Software Engineer at Red Hat,
working on the Trustify project and other software supply chain security
initiatives. Jens began using open source years ago (time flies
when you’re having fun), gradually becoming an active contributor — and now
works full time on open source projects. Herder of kids and cats.
Occasional builder of blocks.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### CSAF Extension - The best worst idea?

#### Speaker: Thomas Schmidt (BSI)

**Abstract:** This session given an overview of the concept of CSAF extensions.
It will cover the history, challenges and perspectives from different use cases.
It will lay down the intended scope and rules for CSAF extensions and provide examples.

**Bio:** Thomas Schmidt works in the 'Industrial Automation and Control Systems' section
of the German Federal Office for Information Security (BSI). His focus is the automation
of advisories at both sides: vendors/CERTs and asset owners. Mr. Schmidt has been a leader
in the OASIS Open CSAF technical committee, and key in bridging this work with the CISA
SBOM and CERT/CC SSVC work.
Prior to this, Schmidt was BSI's lead analyst for TRITION/TRISIS/HatMan and developed,
together with partners, a rule set for Recognizing Anomalies in Protocols of Safety
Networks: Schneider Electric's TriStation (RAPSN SETS). To increase security of ICS and
the broader ecosystem, BSI responsibilities cover many areas including establishing trust
and good relations with vendors and asset owners. Mr. Schmidt completed his masters in
IT-Security at Ruhr-University Bochum (Germany) which included a period of research at
the SCADA Security Laboratory of Queensland University of Technology (Brisbane, Australia).

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Lightning Talks

#### Speaker: various from the CSAF Community

**Abstract:** This session provides the opportunity for on-site participants to share their
knowledge in a short presentation. Sign-up at the event only.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Security Advisories - Facts, Fashions, and Fiction

#### Speaker: Stefan Hagen (CSAF TC)

**Abstract:** The talk presents and applies observations from two decades of unpaid
standardization and software development to promote future interoperability in
information exchange. A brief overview of the journey through the eras of XML and
JSON monoculture offers a retrospective assessment of perceived gains and losses.
Short visits are made to projects that offer models of general information in
addition to specific data format recipes, thus staying closer to the actual needs,
similar to a domain-driven design method. The reality of voluntary efforts in
collaboration with paid partners, as well as old and new trends — from passivity to
interpolating hallucinations — are illustrated in the resulting travel images.
Small excursions into neighboring problem areas — such as behavioral or provenance
analysis — are undertaken to explore how the merging and adaptation of related
concerns can be promoted without dissolving the core positions of the security
recommendations. The assumed position of current standardization is presented
in dystopian colors, yet some of the foreseeable future paths promise less
misleading fiction and more exciting facts for the common good.

**Bio:** Stefan Hagen studied physics at the University of Bonn. He is a Senior
Member of the ACM and was named an OASIS Distinguished Contributor in 2019.
Stefan is a co-author of the GeoJSON RFC format and is passionate about
developing actionable standards. He has contributed to various specifications
and international standards, including CSAF, CVRF, DPS, DSS, JSON, JSON Path,
LVCSP, MQTT, MQTT-SN, OData, SAM, and SARIF (some of which are ISO-IEC JTC-1
certified). Stefan works as a software developer for ground-based training
systems at a Swiss aircraft manufacturer .

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Bringing Trusted Vulnerability Reporting to Every Organization with DevGuard

#### Speaker: Patrick Rissmann (l3montree)

**Abstract:** DevGuard is an open-source tool developed by L3montree GmbH that
enhances the security of the software development process by helping organizations
manage dependency vulnerabilities, first-party code weaknesses, and license
compliance issues. Until recently, DevGuard relied on basic VEX files to exchange
vulnerability information — an effective yet limited approach in terms of
flexibility and expressiveness.
To address this, we introduced CSAF (Common Security Advisory Framework) support
into DevGuard. The goal: enable every organization and project using DevGuard to
automatically generate and directly publish CSAF-conformant reports based on their
stored vulnerability data. In this model, each organization effectively becomes a
trusted CSAF provider, able to communicate vulnerability assessments in a
standardized and interoperable way.
This presentation outlines the full journey — from analyzing the CSAF specification
to designing and implementing the feature in Go. It will cover technical and
conceptual challenges.
A live example will be presented using the openCode platform of ZenDiS, where
DevGuard operates as a platform service. Here, every openCode project can
automatically publish CSAF and VEX documents, backed by enterprise-grade
functionality such as SBOM import, integration with ticket management systems,
and vulnerability assessment workflows.
The session will conclude with a roadmap and vision for collaborative
vulnerability management — leveraging CSAF and VEX to enable crowdsourcing of
vulnerability assessments, sharing results within and across organizations,
and strengthening the open-source ecosystem through transparency and automation.
By bridging DevGuard’s open-source foundations with CSAF’s trusted reporting
capabilities, this work demonstrates how standardized vulnerability communication
can become a natural part of modern, scalable software security management.

**Bio:** Patrick Rissmann is 21 years old and currently in his seventh semester
of a Bachelor’s degree in Cybersecurity at the University of Bonn. Since February
2025, he has been working as a Software Developer at L3montree GmbH, where his
main focus is on the backend development of DevGuard.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### An Architecture for Matching CSAF Documents on Industrial Asset Inventories

#### Speaker: Daniel Rittershofer (Fraunhofer IOSB)

**Abstract:** We present BSI's project 625 on CSAF matching in industrial environments.
The aim of the project is to match an industrial asset inventory with a CSAF document
database so that operators can efficiently identify relevant security advisories for
the assets contained in their plants. We present our system architecture and
implementation as well as our approach to matching CSAF documents to device and
software asset information. The open-source asset inventory NetBox serves as our
asset inventory. We integrate the interaction with the CSAF matching system as well as
the processing and tracking of the processing status of matches into NetBox as a plugin.
By this means we facilitate the use of advisories for the operator's operational security
staff. We present initial results and discuss challenges we have encountered, e.g.,
different sources of asset information for the same asset, inconsistent or incomplete
information in assets and/or CSAF documents, weighting of attributes during matching,
and scalability of the approach.

**Bio:** Daniel Rittershofer holds a Master of Science in Software Engineering and has been working at Fraunhofer IOSB since April 2025.
He is working in the group for industrial cybersecurity and a member of the 625-project team, that developed the CSAF-matching-architecture together with the BSI.


{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### Behind the Curtains of the Common Security Advisory Framework: A Critical OT Perspective

#### Speaker: Christian Schroeder and Alex Steg (Siemens)

**Abstract:** After three years of building a service for vulnerability management in operational
technology environments (OT) that consumes CSAFs, it is time to reflect on the journey. On the
surface, CSAF promises standardization, automation, and improved transparency. But what happens
when we look behind the curtains?
Our presentation offers a critical examination of CSAF from an OT standpoint, highlighting the gaps
between its promise and its practical implementation by publishers. While CSAF streamlines security
operations in standardized IT environments, its adoption in OT landscapes reveals challenges that go
beyond the current scope of CSAF: contextual relevance, vendor alignment, and discoverability. Let’s
have a look at the real-world applicability of structured advisories in complex industrial ecosystems.
We invite you to join us as we share field insights and explore what needs to change for OT Vulnerability
Management to fully leverage CSAF not just in theory, but in practice. The session will feature practical
examples based on real-world CSAF advisories from industrial vendors and will reflect on how these
advisories are consumed by one of the first OT cybersecurity tools to actively leverage CSAF for
vulnerability management and asset risk assessment.

**Bio:** Alex is the Lead Software Architect for Siemens' cybersecurity software portfolio, where he
has been driving the development of SINEC Security Guard for the last two years. His work focuses on
vulnerability management and intrusion detection in industrial environments, with a strong background
in cloud development for regulated industries.

**Bio:** Christian is a Chief Product Owner (CPO) at Siemens AG, leading the SaaS offering SINEC
Security Guard. In this role, Christian defines and executes the product vision and R&D strategy,
aligning it with Siemens' overarching cybersecurity objectives. With extensive experience in
product management, including roles as Senior Product Manager and Systems Engineer, Christian has
driven innovation in software licensing, cloud solutions, and digital transformation across Siemens'
portfolio.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-green >}}

### CSAF & AI

#### Speaker: Sonny van Lingen (Huawei)

**Abstract:**  will be provided shortly

**Bio:** Sonny van Lingen is a seasoned cybersecurity professional currently serving as a Vulnerability
Governance Principal Engineer, representing Huawei PSIRT in Europe. He has spent well over a decade in
numerous cybersecurity roles within the financial and telecommunication sectors. In recent years, Sonny
has shifted his focus to PSIRT activities, dedicating the past 6.5 years to mastering this domain. Sonny
is registered as national expert on vulnerability management and incident response at Finnish national
standardization body SFS and he is actively involved with multiple industry WGs and SIGs. This includes
a role as voting member in the OASIS Open CSAF TC and OpenEoX TC, as well as membership in the
FIRST CVSS SIG and MITRE CVE AI WG. Originally from a financial services security background, his other
prior key roles include positions such as Program Manager for Ericsson’s E2E Vulnerability Management
program and Master Security Specialist at Ericsson PSIRT. Sonny earned his MSc from Utrecht University
and holds several security certifications such as CISSP and CISA.

{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### CSAF for Cloud Native? Challenges and a Proposal

#### Speaker: Christoph Plutte (Ericsson)

**Abstract:** A modern, cloud native microservice based application typically consists of multiple
microservices where each microservice consists of other services and multiple container
images which again contain multiple components or software libraries. Given a software
vulnerability in a library present in several different container images of the application, how
best to describe this situation in CSAF?
CSAF provides concepts to describe complex products containing multiple sub-components
and each of these sub-components can be linked separately to a vulnerability. However, we
argue that the support in CSAF for describing relationships between products and
components is limited and not ideal for modern cloud-native microservice based applications
leading to suboptimal readability and ambiguities.
To make CSAF fit for cloud native applications, we propose to introduce a third core concept
besides products and vulnerabilities that we call “occurrence”. We describe key features of
the occurrence concept and give detailed examples. We believe that introducing a separate
concept for occurrences of vulnerabilities in products not only greatly improves the
applicability of CSAF for cloud native applications, but also opens up new use cases such as
describing scan reports from vulnerability analysis scanners in CSAF as a common standard
across various vendors.

**Bio:**  Christoph Plutte is a Master Security Specialist and member of the Ericsson PSIRT team and focusses on advancing vulnerability management in telecoms. His broad background stretches from cyber security, software development to a Master's degree in philosophy and curiosity for languages. Always on the lookout for complex challenges, he gets enthusiastic when it comes to breaking complexity into structured and feasible tasks transparent to stakeholders. He is active in the OASIS CSAF technical committee.


{{< /session-card >}}

{{< session-card >}}

{{< tlp-clear >}}

### CSAF beyond Security

#### Speaker: Florian Gilcher (Ferrous Sytemes)

**Abstract:** As the name implies, CSAF comes out of the security space. However, it has
usefulness beyond just those environments.
In this talk, we're going to present how we plan to adopt and deploy CSAF for so-called
"management of known issues", a manual and non-automated practice in safety critical
environments.
In this talk, we argue that CSAF is a already great tool for all kinds of high-assurance
software and an important connecting piece. We also argue that CSAF has potential for
future open-source businesses adressing high assurance needs

**Bio:** Florian Gilcher is one of the managing directors of Ferrous Systems, a fully open source
tools company. It ships Ferrocene, the first Rust compiler qualified to be used in
industries where lives are at stake - such as Automotive, Industrial Machinery and
Avionics.

{{< /session-card >}}
